---
title: "Virtual Reality and Statistical Thinking Enhancement"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/virtual-reality-statistical-thinking
excerpt: "For decades, simulation has been a highly reliable tool for decision making. Even before its fundamental origin, the mathematical branch of system dynamics led to pioneering advances in research, technology and business. Today, virtual reality has become a mainstream technique for employee training. The combination of augmented and virtual reality technologies along with traditional methods of simulation has led to the development of a new powerful instrument of learning applied to complex systems."
date: 2019-03-16
venue: 'IEEE Integrated STEM Education Conference, Princeton University USA'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8881966'
citation: 'Olga López Rios and Leopoldo Julián Lechuga López'
---
**Abstract:** For decades, simulation has been a highly reliable tool for decision making. Even before its fundamental origin, the mathematical branch of system dynamics led to pioneering advances in research, technology and business. Today, virtual reality has become a mainstream technique for employee training. The combination of augmented and virtual reality technologies along with traditional methods of simulation has led to the development of a new powerful instrument of learning applied to complex systems. Our work is the first step of an ambitious project which aims to reinforce the Statistical Thinking of undergraduate students at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education. Using virtual reality and numerical simulation methods our project connects processes and statistics. The student faces the challenge to solve a process problem, which is presented in a first step as a 3D video. By using virtual reality, we expect to develop strong and soft skills in our students enhanced by what we call the five S linked by the five C: Scope-Strategy-Standard-Seamless and Success with Choice-Collaboration-Communication-Critical-Thinking and Creativity. We have measured the impact of using this strategy on student learning. For the last two semesters the outcome has been positive for our learning model, in both quantitative and qualitative variables. We have carried out a parametric hypotheses test, comparing the mean grades obtained in a similar final exam, by students having followed our new method with those having a traditional learning method. Finally, by means of a general survey, we obtained that the student's general opinion, concerning learning statistics by visualizing the 3D real process and challenges, is highly motivating and rewarding.

[Link](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8881966)
